# History of Node.js
- Invented in 2009 by Ryan Dahl
- He started running Node.js in Spider Monkey(JS engine in Firefox). In just 2 days, he shifted to Google Chrome JS engine which is V8.
- Node.js is a Javascript runtime built on Chrome V8 Javascript engine
- Joyent(Company) approached Ryan and asked him to work on the project using Node.js and they funded. Then they started using Node.js internally for projects in the company.
- Earlier it is named as web.js by Ryan. Because he want to create web servers using that
- But later he identified the potential that it can be used to create many things not only web servers, he renamed it as Node.js
- Earlier there was Apache HTTP server which is a blocking server. Ryan wanted to solve this problem of blocking by inventing Node.js which is a Non-blocking I/O
- Advantage of Non-Blocking: Handle multiple requests with less number of threads
- In 2010, NPM is invented by Isaac,a developer in Joyent. It is a package manager for Node
- Initially Node.js is built for MacOS, Linux. In 2011, Joyent+Microsoft together provided Windows support
- In 2012, Ryan left the project and it was given to Isaac. Now, the development of Node.js became slow and Joyent is not relaseing new cycles of Node.js
- In 2014, Fedor created a fork of Node.js and named it as io.js.
- In Sep, 2015, Node.js foundation(committee) is formed and merged io.js and node.js- jointly called as Node.js
- In 2019, JS Foundation and Nodejs foundation were merged and called OpenJS Foundation which took control over Node.js and became responsible for active development of Node.js